---
title: 26
date: Oct 21 2021
---

My love, 

In your 25th year, you were fierce in pursuing your dreams and questioning your dreams and your fears. You were ambitious with yourself. You challenged yourself socially, emotionally, professionally, academically, and physically. 

This year you decided you were going to go to grad school. You applied to the top schools in the UK. You dreamed wild. You imagined a world that didn't exist today.

It's time to relish in it all. You deserve this rest. One year this month, you'll be living a very differnt life. You'll live in a different country and be making a life there with your days filled by classes, books, and papers.

You can enjoy this knowing that your dreams are ahead of you. 

This year, I want you to be curious. 

Curious to explore new places. Travel and live in places that are very different than the ones you call home. 

This year, I want you to be clear. 

Clear about your values and yourself. Clarify about what's important and put energy there. This looks like prioritizing your relationship with yourself.

This year, I want you to be connected. 

Reach out to your loved ones. Make sure they know how important they are with the effort put into your relationships. 

This year, I want you be confident. 

Confident that you can tackle any challenges that come your way. Confident that you don't need to study or learn before going to Oxford to prepare. You'll do great as you are. This will liberate the unncessary suffering.

This year, I want to be strong. 

Physical strength turns into emotional strength. When I'm physically strong, I'm more confident in myself and in my life.

This year, I want to be playful.

Bring the lightheartedness of play into daring experiences. Play with your personality - what you like and what you don't.

But this year, I don't want you to be brave.

You've dreamed wilder than ever before and worked damn hard to make them come true. Don't reach for things that scare this year without the lightheartedness of knowing it doesn't need to work out. 

*How can I set myself up for success?* 

* Make sure weekday you're making some time for writing at the end or beginning of the day.
* I want to read 1x per week. Reading while Nick does yoga and a weekend morning. 
* I'll live in another country or few.
* Get a workout schedule that you can't get enough of. Bike, run, 7 mins, bike, run, 7 mins, run. I want to be strong.

I am so grateful to have such spectacular loved ones that take time out of their lives to make me feel special. Not only do they actively prioritize my needs, but try to make sure those needs are filled up to the rim and then some. They know the needs that I don't even know. They explore new things and find ways to engage my values - curiosity, bravery and clarity.





