---
title: 5 Year Later CareGuide.
date: July 29 2022
---

After 5 years at CareGuide, today is my last day. To say it's been a journey is an understatement. I've held more than positions informally and formally than I can count. Switched product lines. And built a team and turned Nanny Lane into a successful source of CareGuide's revenue (as of June, it's the biggest site by revenue). It's unreal to think of all that I've achieved at CareGuide. I feel grateful to have the support and opportunity to be able to achieve it. Lots of people have the ability to achieve great things - but not everyone has the opportunity and I'm grateful to have had both. 

I remember my first season at CareGuide. And I didn't feel that way. I had said I didn't want to code because I thought I wasn't smart enough to do it. Coming from an arts background, it was intimidating. But my daily activities involved writing lots of HTML, CSS, Liquid and SQL. I was worried that I wasn't doing enough or doing it well enough. I learned a lot about myself during this time. I learned that I could learn anything and succeed at it - even things I viewed as impossible. 

I wasn't loving all part of CareGuide's culture at that point and I joined the Culture Crew to help change that. I started a CareGuide library of books for people to share with recommendations from each of the team members and hosting Board Game nights and movie nights at the office. 

Within a year or so, I got frustrated with my manager and wanted to explore things beyond email. In an email, you can control when people get the email, what they see in the email - but not what happens to them after they click it. And I wanted to influence people's behaviours beyond their inbox. I poked and prodded (and begged) and got to start in Product Design. I was working on doing user interviews to re-design the upgrade flow in onboarding with Ishwinder. I also acted as the product manager. Ali was the one that saw the product manager in me. I don't know if I ever would've found that home for myself without his help.

He and Aron transitioned me over to Nanny Lane. This was the golden child of CareGuide at the team. I already knew the team as I was building email campaigns for them - from the very first campaigns like password reset and welcome email to reminding people about unread messages and educating them about PLUS. This team was a powerhouse. It had Roman, the most dedicated and fastest engineer, and Sonia, the designer that created the brand who knew how to balance perfect and done. The three of us got called the Trifecta. We were unstoppable. We redesigned how people found matches on Nanny Lane, how they perceived PLUS, and all the product metrics were looking extremely healthy. We had Peter on Customer Success as the hiring assistance, Katie managing US Payroll, and some of the marketers from CareGuide Core supporting us. The company had a matrix reporting structure. Everyone reported into their function but worked on mission-driven teams like Nanny Lane. Sonia left to go to 500px. We decided this was reinforcing functional communication lines over mission communication lines and switching the reporting structure. Ali and Jenn told me that they'd like to have people start reporting under me like Peter, Katie, and the new designer we would hire: Leo. They started asking me what my career goals were: would you like to be a functional lead like a Director of Product or more like the CEO of Nanny Lane? I wasn't sure but I thought I might be interested in becoming an entrepreneur at some point - probably influenced by serial entrepreneur, Aron. I started to drive down the CEO of Nanny Lane path. I hired my first report, Leo. He was an exceptional designer - slow but the ideas and execution were flawless. We had also just switched Peter to report into me. 

Even during this time, I was still involved in CareGuide's culture. I was working with the VP of People to come up with new company values from designing icons to determining the ground-up process.

Then, covid hit. Our numbers plummeted. A stark drop. The way you never want your charts to look. Families dropped and nannies dropped. We were working from home for two weeks and I got a call while sitting in Lindsey's old bedroom that we'd be letting go most of the Nanny Lane team. We'd go from a team of six to two: Roman and I. That meant I would need to let go of my first two reports. I cried during both of those calls. Roman and I felt serious survivor's guilt. 

We divided up the work of six into his and mine. We took Peter's job of hiring assistance and automated it, so I spent less than 1-2 hours on it daily. I took over processing payrolls learning the ins and outs of State tax agencies and tax files that I never thought I would. I now know US household taxes better than Canadian taxes. I designed new projects and Roman built and took care of scammers and Zendesk. And we looked at the responsibilities we could drop like onboarding new payroll customers - the most time consuming task of payroll. We cut expenses and removed any excess tools. With the C-Suite's help, we realized that families were scared of having people in their homes. They weren't looking for a nanny. But lots of people lost their jobs and they were looking for work. We had more nannies than ever before. We decided to launch a way to monetize on nannies to keep us afloat.

At some point, Roman started reporting into me. It was really only on paper though. We were a team. They called us the co-founders of Nanny Lane. Roman and I worked so well together. We could joke and make progress quickly. We both had such deep knowledge of the product. We could talk about a CTA on a screen deep in the app and totally understand what we both were talking about. I'd hack together mocks and he'd figure out how to build it, sending me screenshots as he went if anything wasn't clear. We started growing during covid. We were hitting all-time highs, as a company and on Nanny Lane. 

But this was still a grind. In my day-to-day, I did a lot of customer success and payroll. I was proud and thrilled to do product work like design, data analysis, and building with Roman - but was drained by the rest. I craved a slower pace with more deliberation than action. I wanted to help people in deeper ways and abroad. I was looking at development master programs. And it helped that I had been itching to leave Toronto. I applied for grad school - why not - I didn't think I'd get in. But I did. It started in a month in London at SOAS. I decided to defer. But still pack up my bags and become nomad.

Then, we started hiring again. First, a payroll person. Maria from HeartPayroll had been helping but that meant she was working A LOT. So, we hired our first pro, Liana. After about 6 months, she got a better opportunity and left. So we hired another one: Tammy. 

I felt more confident that I wanted to go to grad school - but my focus shifted to health. I still can't quite articulate how important our health is. At this point, my hormones were working against not for me - making me exhausted. I felt strongly about women not knowing how their bodies worked and them lacking knowledge to make accurate decisions about their health. I shifted to apply to International Development and Social Anthropology programs to Medical Anthropology and Health Development. I still wanted to work abroad one day in developing nations and felt that the UK would have a better program (compared to North America). I applied to LSE, Oxford, and a few others and got into them all. 

I told C-Suite that I planned on accepting Oxford that fall giving them about 6 months notice. They were really happy for me but also really sad. They pitched me a deal saying "we just have to shoot our shot". The pitched me on deferring another year (Nanny Lane had just hit 1 million in annualized revenue) and they'd give me a bonus of $75,000. I was shocked. And I took time to think about it. I reached out to Oxford to inquire about deferrals. They said they were impossible but that I could try. I did. While I waited for their decision, I negotiated with CareGuide getting the bonus up to $100,000. If I didn't get the deferral, I'd have to apply again. Could I get into Oxford again? I realized that if I accepted Oxford today, I'd be doing it based on fear. My fear that I wouldn't be able to get in again - not on love and hope. I decided to accept CareGuide's offer and travel and work remotely for another year. The goal was to enjoy the riches of my labour of years prior. A few weeks later, I heard from Oxford. I got the deferral. Lesson learned: always choose hope and love over fear.

Now, we started coming up with a plan to hire my replacements. We hired a designer, Yasmin. Then we hired another engineer, Nikita. He's extremely dedicated and hard-working. I'm confident he'll have a great career in development. Then, we hired a Customer Success rep, Leonie and another payroll person, Ciara.

At this point, we had Tammy, Yasmin, Ciara, Leonie, Nikita and Roman reporting to me and our little team didn't seem so little anymore. Ciara was a challenging report. This was the first hire that wasn't performing well. I learned the lesson that when you're dealing with underperformance overcommunication is important - not try to protect their feelings. We got into a sticky spot with her as when I was ready to tell her that it was time to go on a Performance Improvement Plan, she told me she was pregnant. With Ken, we navigated this and ultimately, decided to keep her on the team until her leave and switch reporting into Tammy. We also moved Leonie under Tammy.

Then, it was Carefest. It was hard to go into Carefest knowing it was my last one. I told Roman at the end of Carefest about my plans to go to school and my last day. He understood and felt that it was time for him too. He had been declining an opportunity that had caught his eye. He'd give his notice two weeks later.  

The team changed from relying on the magic between Roman and I to grow this product to needing to build processes for each of the team members. We switched to a new project management tool that was much more granular because we couldn't rely on engineers having the deep knowledge that Roman had. Ryan joined our team from Core and Nikita switched to reporting to him. We wanted to build a scalable and repeatable team of leaders that reported into me, so that when I left it would be easy for my replacement. 

We hired a marketer and a design manager. 

The team is a very different team than when I first joined Nanny Lane. I feel like in the last 5 years I've been a part of many companies and teams - not just one. In Nanny Lane early days, we relied on an individual's strengths and their weaknesses became gaps in the team. Today, the team relies on processes rather than individuals - and those processes determine the team's success. They both work - just at different scales.

Yesterday, at Town Hall, I talked about Nanny Lane's progress over Q2. It was probably the worst quarter Nanny Lane has had in a while. The team went from 7 to 12 people last quarter - which meant lots of training and hiring and less product work. The product work that did get shipped were experiments that didn't have the impact we expected. But it's building the habit of shipping quickly and iterating. Even with that, we made nearly $200k/mo last quarter which is just over 2 million annualized revenue. While I talked about the team's progress and the future of the product, I got to make jokes about Peloton instructors, be playful and enthusiastic and know that those are all things that are appreciated about me - rather than viewing them as things that undermine my competence. 

Jessie made me a final canvas like we did at Carefests. Everyone had slacked her messages about me. I feel really appreciated and loved at CareGuide as a human and admired for how I built Nanny Lane. I joined the team in pre-revenue stages and when I became the product manager, Nanny Lane was making $2k/mo and now we're nearly making $200k/mo. Under my leadership, I was 100x'd the revenue. That's nuts. 

I'm so grateful and proud of my time at CareGuide and Nanny Lane. It'll be memories I cherish forever: jamming to R&B and coding emails, tapping away on my fancy pink & green keyboard, crowded around the lunch table in the office, huddled around the office couches drinking, chatting by the campfire at Carefest, spinning my chair around to chat with Roman & Sonia, endless Slack emojis and gifs, playing soccer at park hangouts in Toronto, and so much more. 

Thank you to CareGuide, to the leadership team, to the entire company, and to myself. None of this would've been possible without all of you. I'll miss it and I'm excited to see what the next chapter holds for me and who I become next.