---
title: Not a ferrari safari
date: July 31 2022
---

We had already booked our fights to leave South Africa on July 22. A few weeks prior to our departure date, we couldn't imagine leaving the African continent so soon. We decided to move our flights to 5 weeks later - almost doubling our initial stay in South Africa. 

We spent most of our time in Cape Town with the exception of a trip to Kruger. We wanted to experience more of South Africa and explore another country. Everyone raved about the Garden Route (a scenic drive along the southern coast). In almost every uber, the driver would ask where we were from and list their "must-do" activities in South Africa. When we told them that we had done them all except Garden Route, they were shocked and prideful. The Garden Route became a great way to understand more about South Africa and spend more time in another state: Eastern Cape. We had heard lots about the Eastern Cape. It was where lots of the African National Congress grew up and spent most of their time including legends like Nelson Mandel and Walter Sisulu.

We started on the drive. It would take us about 3 days to drive from Cape Town to Port Elizabeth aka Gqeberha. Leaving Cape Town we could see the bright green and golden fields that hugged the bottom of the mountains while the ocean hugged the other side of them. Driving out of Cape Town, we passed through the townships. These are racially segregated neighborhoods. Townships are characterized by dense housing from tin sheds, shipping containers, and small bungalows with electricity lines webbed from house to house like a net. Some have shared water and toilets. Others have private water and toilets. We visited a township earlier in the week where we could meet locals and understand the lack of infrastructure from proper electricity to health care. Throughout the township, there were stickers printed by an individual for abortion services: "Mama Nadia Abortion. Same day results. All women's problems." A leader in the community poignantly told us - "You could come back in 5 years, in 7 years, and do the same tour and nothing would've changed. That's too short a time." During Apartheid, whites systematically chose different curriculums for Coloured and Black neighborhoods. Most of the members of the community that work commute into major cities in mini buses and work in the restaurant industry. They deal with dramatic undereducation and alcoholism in these communities. Racism isn't the only force that creates this life - it's also capitalism. We had the opportunity to walk through different daycares. There are 3 options: staying with a family member, a cheaper daycare staffed with volunteers who teach Xosa and English, the best daycare with certified teachers and children can learn Xosa, English, and Afrikaans. The difference between the cheaper daycare and the best daycare in the community is about 3x. Between systemic racism and capitalism, it makes it very hard for these communities to change. Different community centres have started computer classes and created spaces where kids can talk to people about their life decisions from schools, relationships, and more.

Within 2 hours of driving, we entered the Karoo desert. Sheep were on almost every farm. Cacti and thin bushes (fynos) covered the land. In the green and dry fields was a pop of colour: Karoo Aloe. With a palm tree-like bottom with fiery yellow-orange tails coming out of it. There were fields of them.

We arrived at our first stay, the Svrorgy Guest House. It was a bed & breakfast run by a German couple with a rustic opulent aesthetic nestled in the hills. The two men greeted us with a big hug. That night we went to a Moroccan-Karoo restaurant. The restaurant had mini tagines on the tables filled with salt and pepper. Brass Moroccan lamps hung from the ceiling. While browsing the menu, we learned that Karoo is famous for its lamb. The animals are shipped internationally for famous chefs - no wonder we saw so many sheep. 

The next morning the German couple greeted us with a breakfast that embodied both quantity and quality. A buffet with cured meats, cheeses, fermented figs, soft-boiled eggs, muesli, homemade bread, fresh fruit, and two homemade dips. Each in its own platter: some on glass trays, others in individually sized porcelain dishes, and a few in baroque silver bowls. They led us to our own table where we each had our own glass trays for butter. This was the first candle-lit breakfast I've ever had. They entertained us with their stories and tales during breakfast.

Before leaving Barrydale, we enjoyed a rainy hike filled with cacti, flowers, and rainbows. Barrydale had a wild, west Texas vibe mixed with a whole lot of quirk. The quirky wild west towns, the rain, the rainbows, and beautifully intricate plants would become quintessential throughout the rest of the drive through the Karoo. 

Our next stop was George. This was much more of a city. We stopped and enjoyed a more mountainous hike. It reminded us a lot of British Columbia. Filled with ferns but had some exotic flowers mixed in. For dinner, we had a delicious seafood platter.

The next morning, we headed off to Port Elizabeth. We passed through so many climates from the mountains to the rainforest to the subtropics. After a recommendation from the German couple, we stopped for a hike in Wilderness (the actual name of the town that aptly also describes its surroundings). Traversing through the rivers, vines, and mud, we stumbled across a waterfall at the end of the trail. 

The next stop was Knysna. This town had rugged coastal cliffs that reminded us of Lagos, Portugal. We got to enjoy another seafood-filled meal before driving to our Port Elizabeth home.

Tucked in a beachy suburb of Port Elizabeth, our week involved boardwalk runs and grassy dune hikes, bike rides, and a few breweries. On Friday, to celebrate my last day at CareGuide, we headed out to a few local breweries and enjoyed some flights. Funny enough when we asked for a flight, the waiter was incredibly confused. Turns out, they call them more obviously beer-tasting platters. On Saturday, we headed over to our second national park in South Africa, Addo Elephant Park.

Nick and I were skeptical of doing a 1-day safari. Unlike the dry bush of Kruger, Addo is covered in a green subtropical thicket. It's primarily made up of spekboom which absorbs carbon dioxide (so much so that the UN gives money to those that plant it in South Africa). With dense plant life, we doubted that we'd be able to any animals over it. 

Joel, our safari guide, drove us to a lookout. As we stood looking out over the thick green forest. We could see paths that almost looked like hiking trails. These trails were made by elephants walking one foot behind the other and other animals following in their footsteps. 

While scanning the landscape through our binoculars, Nick's eagle eyes spotted a spotted hyena walking out of a nearby bush. It was carrying something. Something fresh and bloody. The hyena walked around and another hyena appeared close by. They took the part of the animal into their den and we could hear the hyenas laughing. Our guide guessed they had cubs in the den because usually if no one else is around they'll eat in the open.

We got back in the car and stumbled upon three male elephants (bulls). There was an older, dominant one with two younger bulls. This often happens as bulls age and their testosterone rages. The bulls can start trying to mount their sisters during this period and are often shunned from the family. They form bachelor heads where they learn from an older male elephant - and that's exactly what we stumbled upon: a bachelor head. One of the younger bulls was getting rowdy. He started wrestling with the older bull. They wrapped their trunks around each other and rammed their tusks together. As we watched these bulls relieve some tension, a family of mothers, sisters, and daughters came running down the field to meet them. The youngest was about a month old. As they ran down the field, we could just see silhouettes of their flexed ears, swinging tails, and each of their legs taking long strides. As they got closer, the elephants lifted their trunks up to the sky to wave hello to each other. Soon more than 15 elephants were all around the vehicle - eating off nearby bushes, smelling each other, and playing. This would be only one of the many elephant reunions we'd witness. We'd later learn that every elephant has unique ears - almost like a fingerprint. But unlike a fingerprint, when they're born their ears are smooth and perfect. As they age, branches and fights make tears, holes and give their ears enough character to tell their life story.

We nearly got 100 ft further down the road when we spotted a Secretary bird. Its name came from secretaries using feathers to write and sticking them behind their ears. With a crown of feathers sticking out of its head and fancy dress pants, it definitely was true to its name. Even how it walked was a little snooty - head held high, neck forward, wings behind its back, and like it was on its way to an important meeting. It is the second tallest bird next to the ostrich and surprisingly fast.

Joel called our safari the opposite of a "Ferrari safari" - we'd take short drives and suddenly spot something. At points, there was so much to see, that we had to choose which side to look at.

The antelope markings were gorgeous. From Kruger, I loved the face of the impala and the horns of the waterbock and springbock. In Addo, we spotted the eland, red hartebeest and kudu. Elands are the least colourful but are the biggest of all three. Sitting strong on the grasslands, it has a reddish triangle on its face while the rest of the body is tan. Red hartebeests are dark reddish brown and black. They blend in perfectly with the red dirt that peers through the grasslands. Their fur has such a sharp line of colour - almost looks like a geometric painting. The Kudu - especially the male Kudu - have sharp white lines that run down their brown fur. Small blonde manes sit on their shoulders and neck that accentuated their frame. Their faces have lines so sharp that they look like they have milk mustaches. 

We'd often see red hartebeest with zebras. Red hartebeests are partially blind and rely on others for their vision. Zebras and red hartebeest don't eat the same grasses, so they don't compete with each other for food and are often considered food by the same animals - making them perfect companions for protection.

In the tall grass, hid two Denham's bustards. It's one of South Africa's heaviest birds. Twists of white and burnt orange around its neck with a wing that almost resembles a monarch butterfly.

The hungry warthog bends its legs to further nestle its head closer to the grass. These buff tiny animals have long hair made up of red and brown ribbons. With two sets of horns - one that sits vertically on their face and one that juts out horizontally, they're quite the menace. If a lion attacks, they twist its heads fast enough to have the horizontal horns cut a main artery. Luckily, there's not much meat on them. They often hang out near the bigger animals as most lions will eat their larger friends over them.

Along the horizon of one of the many hills stands an ostrich. On its long legs bending their neck over pecking at the grass. They take many bites and lift their neck up to swallow. Their necks are so skinny that you can almost watch the food go down. The males have black feathers - they're the classic image you might imagine in your mind when someone mentions an ostrich. The females are brown heathered making them blend in much better with their surroundings.

A slender beak sits above the blades of grass. The black-headed heron pauses mid-hunt waiting for movement. This carnivore snacks on small animals and snakes. Dried blood sits on the beak as proof of how it uses its head to spear its prey.

Baboons ran along the side of the road. As we inched closer, they climbed and ran through the bushes further up the road. Some curious youngsters trailed behind fixated on the car. But they weren't forgotten by the older male leading the group. He'd come back and scoot them along.

Every time we've seen a buffalo, we've been surprised. They're always hiding between or behind a bush. The Cape Buffalo was no different. Even with its large stature, it found a bush bigger than it to snack behind.

A yellow mongoose slinking through the grasslands. Alternating between burrowing holes, scratching its back like a dog, and standing tall on its hind legs like its cousin, the meerkat as it preps for its next meal.

Between the animals and birds, we stopped for tea. The best part of tea time on any safari is the rusks. You dunk it in your tea like a biscotti. However, they're often not as exciting or sweet as a biscotti. In fact, Wikipedia describes them appealingly as hard, dry biscuits. Nevertheless, Nick and I think of them fondly and they're so popular in South Africa that when you go to a grocery store you can find nearly 50 different flavours: chocolate, buttermilk, muesli, etc.

Joel also made us our first traditional braai (a South African barbeque). True to South African culture, we had quite a bit of alcohol and too much meat.

All over the road, there were signs warning cars not to drive over dung. On, inside, and under the dung often sit dung beetles. Unfortunately, when it's under 18 degrees, it's too cold for them to move. We didn't find any moving - but we did find some frozen ones!

We left grateful for another day filled with the wonders of wildlife and nature. Excited about the three more safaris we have in Namibia.